---
id: 4dd916da-59fe-4f71-b62f-8ffec0549370
title: Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck
desc: ''
updated: 1600501943652
created: 1600501943652
data: {}
fname: books.subtle_art
stub: false
parent: c992f0a7-674b-4114-9033-2ef3c1d45706
children: []
hpath: books.subtle_art
---
## test

## books.Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck

Title: The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck: A Counterintuitive Approach to Living a Good Life
Author: Mark Manson

# Notes

# Notes to sort

Extracted Annotations (15/06/2020, 18:16:42)

""I have one of two choices—stay in the post office and go crazy ... or stay out here and play at writer and starve. I have decided to starve."" (Manson :6)

"Bukowski was a loser. He knew it. And his success stemmed not from some determination to be a winner, but from the fact that he knew he was a loser, accepted it, and then wrote honestly about it. He never tried to be anything other than what he was." (Manson :6)

"didn't give a fuck about success" (Manson :6)

"But when you stop and really think about it, conventional life advice—all the positive and happy self-help stuff we hear all the time—is actually fixating on what you lack. It lasers in on what you perceive your personal shortcomings and failures to already be, and then emphasizes them for you. You learn about the best ways to make money because you feel you don't have enough money already. You stand in front of the mirror and repeat affirmations saying that you're beautiful because you feel as though you're not beautiful already. You follow dating and relationship advice because you feel that you're unlovable already. You try goofy visualization exercises about being more successful because you feel as though you aren't successful enough already." (Manson :7)

"And while there's nothing wrong with good business, the problem is that giving too many fucks is bad for your mental health. It causes you to become overly attached to the superficial and fake, to dedicate your life to chasing a mirage of happiness and satisfaction. The key to a good life is not giving a fuck about more; it's giving a fuck about less, giving a fuck about only what is true and immediate and important." (Manson :8)

"Back in Grandpa's day, he would feel like shit and think to himself, "Gee whiz, I sure do feel like a cow turd today. But hey, I guess that's just life. Back to shoveling hay." But now? Now if you feel like shit for even five minutes, you're bombarded with 350 images of people totally happy and having amazing fucking lives, and it's impossible to not feel like there's something wrong with you. It's this last part that gets us into trouble. We feel bad about feeling bad. We feel guilty for feeling guilty. We get angry about getting angry. We get anxious about feeling anxious. What is wrong with me?" (Manson :10)

""You will never be happy if you continue to search for what happiness consists of. You will never live if you are looking for the meaning of life."" (Manson :12)

"The pain you pursue in the gym results in better all-around health and energy. The failures in business are what lead to a better understanding of what's necessary to be successful." (Manson :13)

"To try to avoid pain is to give too many fucks about pain. In contrast, if you're able to not give a fuck about the pain, you become unstoppable." (Manson :13)

"To not give a fuck is to stare down life's most terrifying and difficult challenges and still take action." (Manson :14)

"We give too many fucks about the rude gas station attendant who gave us our change in nickels. We give too many fucks when a show we liked was canceled on TV. We give too many fucks when our coworkers don't bother asking us about our awesome weekend." (Manson :14)

"You and everyone you know are going to be dead soon. And in the short amount of time between here and there, you have a limited amount of fucks to give. Very few, in fact. And if you go around giving a fuck about everything and everyone without conscious thought or choice —well, then you're going to get fucked." (Manson :14)

"There is a subtle art to not giving a fuck. And though the concept may sound ridiculous and I may sound like an asshole, what I'm talking about here is essentially learning how to focus and prioritize your thoughts effectively—how to pick and choose what matters to you and what does not matter to you based on finely honed personal values. This is incredibly difficult. It takes a lifetime of practice and discipline to achieve. And you will regularly fail. But it is perhaps the most" (Manson :14)

"worthy struggle one can undertake in one's life. It is perhaps the only struggle in one's life." (Manson :15)

"Subtlety #1: Not giving a fuck does not mean being indifferent; it means being comfortable with being different." (Manson :15)

"Indifferent people are afraid of the world and the repercussions of their own choices. That's why they don't make any meaningful choices." (Manson :16)

"The question, then, is, What do we give a fuck about? What are we choosing to give a fuck about? And how can we not give a fuck about what ultimately does not matter?" (Manson :16)

"about anything; on the contrary, we mean that Mark Manson doesn't care about adversity in the face of his goals, he doesn't care about pissing some people off to do what he feels is right or important or noble." (Manson :16)

"The willingness to stare failure in the face and shove your middle finger back at it. The people who don't give a fuck about adversity or failure or embarrassing themselves or shitting the bed a few times. The people who just laugh and then do what they believe in anyway." (Manson :17)

"If you find yourself consistently giving too many fucks about trivial shit that bothers you—your ex-boyfriend's new Facebook picture, how quickly the batteries die in the TV remote, missing out on yet another two-for-one sale on hand sanitizer—chances are you don't have much going on in your life to give a legitimate fuck about. And that's your real problem. Not the hand sanitizer. Not the TV remote." (Manson :18)

"I believe that today we're facing a psychological epidemic, one in which people no longer realize it's okay for things to suck sometimes." (Manson :20)

"The rich suffer because of their riches. The poor suffer because of their poverty. People without a family suffer because they have no family. People with a family suffer because of their family. People who pursue worldly pleasures suffer because of their worldly pleasures. People who abstain from worldly pleasures suffer because of their abstention." (Manson :24)

"pain and loss are inevitable and we should let go of trying to resist them. The prince would later become known as the Buddha." (Manson :24)

"After all, the greatest truths in life are usually the most unpleasant to hear." (Manson :25)

"Happiness Comes from Solving Problems" (Manson :28)

"Decision-making based on emotional intuition, without the aid of reason to keep it in line, pretty much always sucks." (Manson :31)

"What determines your success isn't, "What do you want to enjoy?" The relevant question is, "What pain do you want to" (Manson :33)

"sustain?" The path to happiness is a path full of shitheaps and shame." (Manson :34)

"What is the pain that you want to sustain? That's the hard question that matters, the question that will actually get you somewhere. It's the question that can change a perspective, a life." (Manson :34)

"t took me a long time and a lot of struggle to finally figure out why: I didn't actually want it." (Manson :34)

"This is not about willpower or grit. This is not another admonishment of "no pain, no gain." This is the most simple and basic component of life: our struggles determine our successes. Our problems birth our happiness, along with slightly better, slightly upgraded problems." (Manson :35)

"It turns out that merely feeling good about yourself doesn't really mean anything unless you have a good reason to feel good about yourself. It turns out that adversity and failure are actually useful and even necessary for developing strong-minded and successful adults. It turns out that teaching people to believe they're exceptional and to feel good about themselves no matter what doesn't lead to a population full of Bill Gateses and Martin Luther Kings. It leads to a population full of Jimmys." (Manson :38)

"A person who actually has a high self-worth is able to look at the negative parts of his character frankly—"Yes, sometimes I'm irresponsible with money," "Yes, sometimes I exaggerate my own successes," "Yes, I rely too much on others to support me and should be more self-reliant"—and then acts to improve upon them. But entitled people, because they are incapable of acknowledging their own problems openly and honestly, are incapable of improving their lives in any lasting or meaningful way. They are left chasing high after high and accumulate greater and greater levels of denial." (Manson :40)

"Often, it's this realization—that you and your problems are actually not privileged in their severity or pain—that is the first and most important step toward solving them." (Manson :48)

"To become truly great at something, you have to dedicate shit-tons of time and energy to it. And because we all have limited time and energy, few of us ever become truly exceptional at more than one thing, if anything at all." (Manson :49)

"Millennials often get blamed for this cultural shift, but that's likely because millennials are the most plugged-in and visible generation. In fact, the tendency toward entitlement is apparent across all of society. And I believe it's linked to mass-media-driven exceptionalism." (Manson :50)

"The rare people who do become truly exceptional at something do so not because they believe they're exceptional. On the contrary, they become amazing because they're obsessed with improvement. And that obsession with improvement stems from an unerring belief that they are, in fact, not that great at all. It's anti-entitlement. People who become great at something become great because they understand that they're not already great—they are mediocre, they are average—and that they could be so much better." (Manson :52)

"You will have a growing appreciation for life's basic experiences: the pleasures of simple friendship, creating something, helping a person in need, reading a good book, laughing with someone you care about." (Manson :53)

"Sounds boring, doesn't it? That's because these things are ordinary. But maybe they're ordinary for a reason: because they are what actually matters." (Manson :53)

"If suffering is inevitable, if our problems in life are unavoidable, then the question we should be asking is not "How do I stop suffering?" but "Why am I suffering—for what purpose?"" (Manson :58)

"Let's say the first layer of the self-awareness onion is a simple understanding of one's emotions. "This is when I feel happy." "This makes me feel sad." "This gives me hope."" (Manson :59)

"It takes years of practice and effort to get good at identifying blind spots in ourselves and then expressing the affected emotions appropriately. But this task is hugely important, and worth the effort." (Manson :60)

"The second layer of the self-awareness onion is an ability to ask why we feel certain emotions." (Manson :60)

"Once we understand that root cause, we can ideally do something to change it." (Manson :60)

"Honest self-questioning is difficult. It requires asking yourself simple questions that are uncomfortable to answer. In fact, in my experience, the more uncomfortable the answer, the more likely it is to be true." (Manson :62)

"Our values determine the metrics by which we measure ourselves and everyone else." (Manson :66)

"If you want to change how you see your problems, you have to change what you value and/or how you measure failure/success." (Manson :66)

"But if you're sitting pretty in the middle class in a developed country, an extra ten thousand dollars per year won't affect anything much—meaning that you're killing yourself working overtime and weekends for basically nothing." (Manson :69)

"Denying negative emotions leads to experiencing deeper and more prolonged negative emotions and to emotional dysfunction. Constant positivity is a form of avoidance, not a valid solution to life's problems— problems which, by the way, if you're choosing the right values and metrics, should be invigorating you and motivating you." (Manson :70)

"This is why these values—pleasure, material success, always being right, staying positive—are poor ideals for a" (Manson :71)

"person's life. Some of the greatest moments of one's life are not pleasant, not successful, not known, and not positive." (Manson :72)

"The point is to nail down some good values and metrics, and pleasure and success will naturally emerge as a result. These things are side effects of good values. By themselves, they are empty highs." (Manson :72)

"Good values are 1) reality-based, 2) socially constructive, and 3) immediate and controllable. Bad values are 1) superstitious, 2) socially destructive, and 3) not immediate or controllable." (Manson :72)

"Some examples of good, healthy values: honesty, innovation, vulnerability, standing up for oneself, standing up for others, self-respect, curiosity, charity, humility, creativity." (Manson :72)

"Some examples of bad, unhealthy values: dominance through manipulation or violence, indiscriminate fucking, feeling good all the time, always being the center of attention, not being alone, being liked by everybody, being rich for the sake of being rich, sacrificing small animals to the pagan gods." (Manson :72)

"in a nutshell, is what "self-improvement" is really about: prioritizing better values, choosing better things to give a fuck about. Because when you give better fucks, you get better problems. And when you get better problems, you get a better life." (Manson :74)

"The first, which we'll look at in the next chapter, is a radical form of responsibility: taking responsibility for everything that occurs in your life, regardless of who's at fault. The second is uncertainty: the acknowledgement of your own ignorance and the cultivation of constant doubt in your own beliefs. The next is failure: the willingness to discover your own flaws and mistakes so that they may be improved upon. The fourth is rejection: the ability to both say and hear no, thus clearly defining what you will and will not accept in your life. The final value is the contemplation of one's own mortality; this one is crucial, because paying vigilant attention to one's" (Manson :74)

"own death is perhaps the only thing capable of helping us keep all our other values in proper perspective." (Manson :75)

"When we feel that we're choosing our problems, we feel empowered. When we feel that our problems are being forced upon us against our will, we feel victimized and miserable." (Manson :77)

"There is a simple realization from which all personal improvement and growth emerges. This is the realization that we, individually, are responsible for everything in our lives, no matter the external circumstances." (Manson :79)

"We don't always control what happens to us. But we always control how we interpret what happens to us, as well as how we respond." (Manson :79)

"The more we choose to accept responsibility in our lives, the more power we will exercise over our lives. Accepting responsibility for our problems is thus the first step to solving them." (Manson :81)

"Fault results from choices that have already been made. Responsibility results from the choices you're currently making, every second of every day." (Manson :83)

"A lot of people treat being born with a disadvantage, whether OCD or small stature or something very different, as though they were screwed out of something highly valuable. They feel that there's nothing they can do about it, so they avoid responsibility for their situation. They figure, "I didn't choose my crappy genetics, so it's not my fault if things go wrong."" (Manson :90)

"People who consistently make the best choices in the situations they're given are the ones who eventually come out ahead in poker, just as in life. And it's not necessarily the people with the best cards." (Manson :91)

"You are already choosing, in every moment of every day, what to give a fuck about, so change is as simple as choosing to give a fuck about something else." (Manson :94)

"It's not easy because you're going to feel like a loser, a fraud, a dumbass at first. You're going to be nervous. You're going to freak out. You may get pissed off at your wife or your friends or your father in the process. These are all side effects of changing your values, of changing the fucks you're giving. But they are inevitable." (Manson :94)

"There's a famous Michael Jordan quote about him failing over and over and over again, and that's why he succeeded. Well, I'm always wrong about everything, over and over and over again, and that's why my life improves." (Manson :97)

"So when we have a great relationship with our sister, we'll interpret most of our memories about her in a positive light. But when the relationship sours, we'll often come to see those exact same memories differently, reinventing them in such a way as to explain our present-day anger toward her." (Manson :104)

"It's the backwards law again: the more you try to be certain about something, the more uncertain and insecure you will feel." (Manson :111)

"The more something threatens your identity, the more you will avoid it." (Manson :112)

"I say don't find yourself. I say never know who you are. Because that's what keeps you striving and discovering. And it forces you to remain humble in your judgments and accepting of the differences in others." (Manson :114)

"Buddhism argues that your idea of who "you" are is an arbitrary mental construction and that you should let go of the idea that "you" exist at all; that the arbitrary metrics by which you define yourself actually trap you, and thus you're better off letting go of everything. In a sense, you could say that Buddhism encourages you to not give a fuck." (Manson :114)

"I have both some good news and some bad news for you: there is little that is unique or special about your problems. That's why letting go is so liberating." (Manson :115)

"Questioning ourselves and doubting our own thoughts and beliefs is one of the hardest skills to develop. But it can be done. Here are some questions that will help you breed a little more uncertainty in your life." (Manson :116)

"Question #1: What if I'm wrong?" (Manson :116)

""Am I jealous—and if I am, then why?" "Am I angry?" "Is she right, and I'm just protecting my ego?" Questions like these need to become a mental habit. In many cases, the simple act of asking ourselves such questions generates the humility and compassion needed to resolve a lot of our issues." (Manson :117)

"Question #2: What would it mean if I were wrong?" (Manson :117)

"I try to live with few rules, but one that I've adopted over the years is this: if it's down to me being screwed up, or" (Manson :119)

"everybody else being screwed up, it is far, far, far more likely that I'm the one who's screwed up. I have learned this from experience. I have been the asshole acting out based on my own insecurities and flawed certainties more times than I can count. It's not pretty." (Manson :120)

"Even when you win the lottery and buy a small fleet of Jet Skis, you still won't know what the hell you're doing. Don't ever forget that. And don't ever be afraid of that." (Manson :130)

""If you're stuck on a problem, don't sit there and think about it; just start working on it. Even if you don't know what you're doing, the simple act of working on it will eventually cause the right ideas to show up in your head."" (Manson :131)

"Action isn't just the effect of motivation; it's also the cause of it." (Manson :131)

"The difference between a healthy and an unhealthy relationship comes down to two things: 1) how well each person in the relationship accepts responsibility, and 2) the willingness of each person to both reject and be rejected by their partner." (Manson :142)

"And the primary lesson was this: there is nothing to be afraid of. Ever. And reminding myself of my own death repeatedly over the years—whether it be through meditation, through reading philosophy, or through doing crazy shit like standing on a cliff in South Africa—is the only thing that has helped me hold this realization front and center in my mind." (Manson :168)
