---
nav_order: 3.3.4
id: 912cff24-cfab-4195-9e6b-91f01ecc5017
title: Clojure for the Brave and True
desc: ''
updated: 1599582880901
created: 1599582880901
data: {}
fname: pkm.clojure.brave-and-true
stub: false
parent: 6000b39f-04b1-4c49-b75b-dfa603889aa0
children: []
hpath: pkm.clojure.brave-and-true
---
# Clojure for the Brave and True

**Title:** Clojure for the Brave and True  
**Author:** Daniel Higginbotham  
**Link:** [Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/en/book/show/20873338-clojure-for-the-brave-and-true) 

* * *

## Book Set Up:

1. Environment
   - Building, Running and the REPL. 
   - Manner in which to build programs and how the REPL works
2. EMACS
   - How to set up and use EMACS - not sure this is for me as will use Intellij.
3. Doing things - crash course
   - Doing stuff and seeing how it works
4. Core Functions
   - Learn about concepts and grounding of the language. 
   - Use real examples of how this language is used
5. Functional Programming
   - Data structures and functional programming
6. Organising Project
   - All about project organisation
7. Alchemy: Reading, Evaluating and Macros
   - How does Clojure run my code. 
   - Macros - how these can save time and make code even more powerful. 
8. Macros
   - Writing Macros and how these are used
9. Sacred Art of Concurrent and Parallel Programming
   - What these concepts are and how to run them 
10. Clojure Metaphysics: Atom, Refs, Vars
11. Mastering Concurrent Processes with 
12. Working with the JVM
13. Creating and Extending Abstractions

## Chapter 3

- If
  - Works in the same way as Excel - If this then this or that.
  - If only one expression then returns true
  - `(if true “By Zeus’s hammer!” “By Aquaman’s trident!”)`

- Do
  - Allows you to wrap up multiple forms
  - Bit like if true then do this and then this, same goes for false -  basically allows you to return to things
  - `(if true (do (println “Success!”) “By Zeus’s hammer!”) (do (println “Failure!”) “By Aquaman’s trident !”))`

- When
  - This is like a if and do but without an else.
  - `(when true (println “Success!”) “abra cadabra”)`

- Or
  - `(or (= 0 1) (= “yes” “no”))` = false
  - this is because they both need to be the same - think Excel

- And.or
  - (and :free_wifi :hot_coffee)
  - Again think Excel with this

- def - Name Values
  - you are basically defining your name
  - `(defn failed-protagonist-names [“Larry Potter” “Doreen the Explorer” “The Incredible Bulk”])`
    - `(failed-protagonist-names)` calls us the names
  - `(defn error-message [severity] (str “OH G OD! IT’S A DISASTER! WE’RE ” (if (= severity :mild) “MILDLY INCONVENIENCE D!” “DOOOOOOOMED!”)))`
    - `(error-message :mild)` ; => “OH GOD! IT’S A DISASTER!\`

- Numbers
  - This can be 93, 1.2, 1/5

- Strings
  - Text which includes ""

- Maps
  - `(get {:a 0 :b {:c “ho hum”}} :b)` = {:c "ho hum"}

- Keywords
  - `(:a {:a 1 :b 2 :c 3})` = 1

- Vectors
  - `(get [3 2 1] 0)` = 3
  - `(conj [1 2 3] 4)`  = [1 2 3 4]

- Lists
  - Similar to vectors but cannot retrive list elements using `get`
  - ‘(1 2 3 4)
  - `(nth ’(:a :b :c) 0)` = :a
  - Using nth to retrieve an element from a list is slower than using get to retrieve an element from a vector - Clojure has to traverse all n elements of a list to get to the nth, whereas it only takes a few hops at most to access a vector element by its index
  - When to use a list vs vector? If you need to add items to the beginning of a sequence or writing a macro, use a list. Otherwise, use a vector.

- Sets
  - collection of units values
  - `(conj #{:a :b} :b)` = #{:b :a}

- Contains
  - check if a membership contains
  - `(contains? #{:a :b} :a)` = true
  - `(contains? #{:a :b} 3)` = false

- Calling Functions
  - opening parenthesis, operator, operands, closing parenthesis.

- Anonymous Functions
  - `((fn [x] (* x 3)) 8)` = 24
  - `(#(* % 3) 8)` = 24
  - `(map (fn [name] (str “Hi, ” name)) [“Darth Vader” “Mr. Magoo”])` = (“Hi, Darth Vader” “Hi, Mr. Magoo”)
  - `(map #(str “Hi, ” %) [“Darth Vader” “Mr. Magoo”])` ; => (“Hi, Darth Vader” “Hi, Mr. Magoo”)

- Let
  - binds names to values
  - `(let [x 3] x)`

- Loop
  - (loop [iteration 0] \(println (str “It eration ” iteration)) (if (> iteration 3) (println “Goodbye !”) (recur (inc iteratio n))))

## Chapter 4

- Seq to map
  - convert the seq back into a map by using into to stick the result into an empty map
  - (into {} (seq {:a 1 :b 2 :c 3}))

- Map
  - `(map str [“a” “b” “c”] [“A” “B” “C”])`

- Unify
  ```Clojure
  (def human-consumption [8.1 7.3 6.6 5.0]) 
  (def critter-consumption [0.0 0.2 0.3 1.1] ) 
  (defn unify-diet-data [human critter] 
  {:human human :critter cri tter}) (map unify-diet-data human-consumption critter-consumption)
  ; => ({:human 8.1, :critter 0.0} {:human 7.3, :critter 0.2} {:human 6.6, :critter 0.3} {:human 5.0, :critter 1.8})
  ```

- Take and Drop
  - take and drop both take two arguments: a number and a sequence. take returns the first n elements of the sequence, whereas drop returns the sequence with the first n elements removed: 
  - `(take 3 [1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10])` ; => (1 2 3)
  - `(drop 3 [1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10])` ; => (4 5 6 7 8 9 10)

- Sort
  - Can do sort
  - sort-by

- Concat

- `(concat [1 2] [3 4])`; => (1 2 3 4)
