---
id: 99c62cf3-5c36-4402-ade4-207725d3635c
title: Everything is fucked
desc: ''
updated: 1601117266442
created: 1601117266442
data: {}
fname: books.everything_is_fucked
stub: false
parent: c992f0a7-674b-4114-9033-2ef3c1d45706
children: []
hpath: books.everything_is_fucked
---
# Everything is fucked

# books.Everything is Fucked

Title: Everything is Fucked: A Book About Hope
Author: Mark Manson

# Notes

# Notes to sort

"Well, damn, things were way worse then, and that guy transcended it" (Manson :11)

"all. What have I done lately?"—" (Manson :12)

"When we zoom out and get perspective, we realize that while heroes like Pilecki save the world, we swat at gnats and complain that the AC isn't high enough." (Manson :12)

"being heroic is the ability to conjure hope where there is none. To strike a match to light up the void. To show us a possibility for a better world—not a better world we want to exist, but a better world we didn't know could exist. To take a situation where everything seems to be absolutely fucked and still somehow make it good." (Manson :12)

""I have tried to live my life such that in the hour of my death I would feel joy rather than fear."" (Manson :13)

"Here's what a lot of people don't get: the opposite of happiness is not 1 anger or sadness. If you're angry or sad, that means you still give a fuck about something. That means something still matters. That means you still 2 have hope." (Manson :15)

"Hope doesn't care about the problems that have already been solved. Hope cares only about the problems that still need to be solved. Because the better the world gets, the more we have to lose. And the more we have to lose, the less we feel we have to hope for." (Manson :20)

"To build and maintain hope, we need three things: a sense of control, a belief in the value of something, and a community." (Manson :20)

"Lose any of the three, and you lose the other two. Lose any of the three, and you lose hope." (Manson :20)

"The fact is that we require more than willpower to achieve self-control. It turns out that our emotions are instrumental in our decision making and our actions. We just don't always realize it." (Manson :29)

"It's incredibly easy to let your Thinking Brain fall into the trap of merely drawing the maps the Feeling Brain wants to follow. This is called the "self-serving bias," and it's the basis for pretty much everything awful about humanity." (Manson :33)

"The child steals the ice cream because it feels good, and he is oblivious or indifferent to the consequences. The adolescent doesn't steal because he knows it will create worse consequences in the future, but his decision is ultimately a bargain with his future self: I'll forgo some 24 pleasure now to prevent greater future pain. But it's only the adult who doesn't steal for the simple principle that stealing is wrong. And to steal, even if she gets away with it, would make 25 her feel worse about herself." (Manson :117)
