---
id: c7b85fd6-6546-4aa2-b92d-e6ad3be77330
title: Playing The Matrix
desc: ''
updated: 1600501943652
created: 1600501943652
data: {}
fname: books.playing-thematrix
stub: false
parent: c992f0a7-674b-4114-9033-2ef3c1d45706
children: []
hpath: books.playing-thematrix
---
## Title: Playing the Matrix

## Author: Mike Dooley

## Notes

## Notes to sort

"If you want happiness for an hour, take a nap. If you want happiness for a day, go fishing. If you want happiness for a year, inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime, help somebody." (Dooley :14)

"1. Avoid self-sabotage through achieving greater clarity 2. Arouse the critical element of passion without attaching to unimportant details 3. Act on their dreams without "messing with the cursed hows"!" (Dooley :16)

"Taking less for granted and paying closer attention, perhaps we can see what's happening in the case of our more conscious miracles, like walking, for example: To Perform Miracles: 1. Possess intention to achieve desired end result, and, 2. Humbly, if naively, physically move in the desired direction." (Dooley :21)

"To be clear, I'm not speaking about nighttime dreams to explore why we have them. That's a different subject. I'm speaking about the logistics and the realization that you project it all into place as a nonstop streamer. When you understand this, you realize your astounding powers of matter manipulation and you can start the magnificent work of deliberately changing the scenery of your life." (Dooley :27)

"Forget the hows. They're not important. Be concerned with the hows and you'll overthink and bog down. Instead, focus on what you want, think of it as done, imagine you are there. Happy, fulfilled, creative, and whatever else you want to be. Then, following your seemingly feeble baby steps, the world changes, at first imperceptibly, then, with consistence, gigantically." (Dooley :30)

"Right now, in your immediate area, there are happy office workers; proud, beaming schoolteachers; gloating parents, who are rocking their lives because they simply focus on what they love, and physically move with those thoughts. They make the best of what's before them and the Universe is like, I can play that game, more of what you love coming right up!" (Dooley :34)

"But the truth is, it doesn't matter what you do next, so long as you do something to the best of your ability that moves you in the direction that at least makes the most sense, given your options!" (Dooley :38)

"As the Universe once pointed out in a note, "The only time the ship of your dreams will never find you is if you are at home, waiting for it."" (Dooley :38)

"Let this become your mantra: "I can't see it, but it's working. It always works. It never fails. Every day I get closer. Every day it gets easier. It's working." Understand that everything you say registers with the Universe. "Oh, it's not working, is it?" reveals limiting beliefs, unintended end results, and confusion. Listen. Correct. Rephrase that which doesn't serve you." (Dooley :39)

"The main two reasons, however, that we slip and slide as budding deliberate creators are because of our misunderstandings and contradictions, which of course lead to poorly chosen, or waffling, end results, that often place us in the "Bermuda Triangle." More specifically: 1. Misunderstandings a. Our power and responsibilities b. The flow of all manifestations 2. Contradictions - The Nuances a. Not knowing what we really want b. Attaching to the details c. Messing with the "cursed hows"" (Dooley :48)

"But take the other person who has the same vision board: "That's the type of car I want next. See that house and its modern kitchen? Just like where I'll soon be living! And these are the kinds of friends and awesome vacations that I'll take every year, surrounded by love and laughter. You know, I'd like to work in this profession, probably in this career, but I'm open to something even better."" (Dooley :65)

"If your vision board is all about manifesting the exact things pictured, it's problematic. If it's about getting you excited about wonderful changes coming on the left side of the Matrix, that will then spin these or better details, it's very powerful." (Dooley :65)

"On the left side of the Matrix, everything works more swiftly for your highest and greatest good." (Dooley :67)

"Be self-serving. You can't play the Matrix for others. You can influence them, and if you've got kids or employees, this is part of your job, but nothing can ensure others will behave as you wish. When it comes to you Playing the Matrix, you must be the prime beneficiary." (Dooley :69)

"2. Your end results would ideally be so broad that their successful manifestation will automatically further the journey of your life, rather than just be destinations or stopping points. When you keep your end results general, you're automatically choosing big-picture priority areas for change, the success from which will inevitably spill over into other large areas of your life. As opposed to destination end" (Dooley :69)

"results like the car, the job title, or a hot date, which would only ever be a small part of living a rocking life." (Dooley :70)

". Your end results ought to make sense logically and feel good emotionally. Too often spiritually aware people want to ditch any form of logic or intellect. While logic is usually overrated in our society, it can be a valuable tool in stirring up magic and possibilities, giving you new ideas of doors to knock upon, stones to turn over, and approaches to test. A hypothetical example I've used in my earlier works, which isn't too far from the kind of ideas I really do hear: "Trust me, Mike, I know about the law of attraction and thoughts becoming things. I have an idea that will revolutionize the world for cat lovers, while making me a fortune: kitten leg warmers!" As if kittens weren't already cute enough? "The way I see it, the Universe loves me, all things are possible, I'm a natural born creator, so why not? I'll even give you partial credit for my success, Mike."" (Dooley :70)

"If you're feeling a little bit of hesitation, logically, on a dream or a goal, it's probably an invisible, limiting, self-sabotaging belief. Rather than looking for what's invisible, by getting a little more logical, you can broaden the definition and scope of your desires, getting more general, until you're eventually on board with the dream. If you're having trouble intellectually believing in your kitten leg warmer idea, which I kind of hope you are, how about considering going more general, like opening a pet store online? Or" (Dooley :70)

"maybe at a nearby shopping center or mall? How about inside your store, in addition to kitten leg warmers, you sell cat toys, dog leashes, and bird food? By getting a tad more logical, going down a path that is well worn with the success of others who did the same, you might have more confidence and navigate right around the invisible limiting belief creating the resistance. The beauty here is that we're fully preserving the possibilities that kitten leg warmers may be our "ticket"—nothing has been excluded. But to ward off the chance that our specificity might limit us, we've broadened the scope of the dream." (Dooley :71)

"Your end results should not be dependent on specific people, paths, and details, nor upon specific timelines. I've already addressed the reasons for not having dreams dependent on specific people, paths, and details, so here let me address the problem with timelines, or as they are more commonly used, deadlines. As in, "I want to be a millionaire by December 31 this year!" First, I think putting deadlines on yourself is fine. I often aim to write a certain amount of words per book-writing session. What I don't recommend is putting deadlines on the Universe or life's magic. "The Universe" and "magic" are qualities we can hardly grasp with our brains, yet to be so naive at the outset of a journey as to demand your dream come true by some date on the calendar pretty much pushes the ridiculous. How can you know or demand all the details, players, and so-called coincidences, plotted on a timeline no less, necessary for your dream to come true?" (Dooley :71)

"St e ps to Payi ng the Matri 1. Choose a general end result. 2. Get into the details, just don't attach to them. 3. Take action, without messing with the "hows."" (Dooley :73)

"To recap some of the most important lessons concerning the Matrix: 1. The need to micromanage one's life stems from a failure to understand life's magic. 2. Wisely defining our dreams is a huge factor in whether they can come true. 3. By having general end results, a more effortless approach to creating change emerges. 4. All you've ever learned about living deliberately can still be used with just a few tweaks. 5. Your happiness is key to sparking great tangible and intangible changes in your life." (Dooley :74)

"There's going to be better stuff, I promise." To which I add, "And you'll find it so much quicker once you stop dwelling on the right-hand side of the Matrix, concerned about the 'cursed hows.'" Which, of course, is exactly where they are when they're trying to logistically figure out and micromanage how they will one day be happy again." (Dooley :82)

"On the other hand, let's hypothetically say you're the same inspired realtor, but in this example when you start writing down some new short-term goals, they sound like this. This year: The floodgates of abundance are about to start trembling! I will discover myself and my gifts as I move into clarity! I will absolutely love all that I do; it will feel like play! My friendship circles will expand and my business connections will multiply!" (Dooley :84)

"Life is not about having one dream at a time, unless that dream is happiness. Life is about living a grand and full adventure on all fronts." (Dooley :88)

"The simple lessons from this Step 1 of Playing the Matrix can be summarized like this: 1. You already know exactly what you want, when you keep it general. 2. When you keep it general, you shoot past your own known objections. 3. When your end results are general, you never have to doubt, second-guess, or quit—failure becomes impossible. 4. The more general your end results, the faster and easier they'll manifest. 5. Let your highest life priorities for change help you choose where to begin." (Dooley :89)

"always be aware of your changing priorities. As we grow and evolve, so do our tastes and preferences, and there's no shame in changing our minds or even shedding old visions of what we used to think we wanted." (Dooley :91)

"in life, no matter how many times you change your mind, or how many different doors you knock on, or how many varying priorities you have, the Universe responds, "I know how. I still know how. I really know how." As it begins coaxing and nudging you back on point." (Dooley :99)

"With every quality you attach to or insist upon, like, "He must be tall!" you eliminate billions of candidates from contention! "He must be bald!" Billions more. "He must be an author!" Forget it!" (Dooley :102)

"Should you ever be in need of a miracle (you know, hypothetically, just "what if"), think not of the miracle, not even a little, but instead of its intended result." (Dooley :103)

"the "intended result" is your desired "end result." That's what you insist on. Do not dictate to the Universe, "I need this miracle, that miracle, and the other miracle, so that I can have X, Y, and Z." And don't think to yourself, I must do this, that, and the other. You can't know any of these variables. They're not knowable." (Dooley :103)

"Understanding this at a cellular level is as simple as understanding these lessons from this chapter: 1. The details are visualized to get you excited about your end results, not to be your end results. 2. There's always more than one right answer, path, possibility, partner, or nuance. So, insist upon none or you exclude all others. 3. When you insist upon any detail, you exclude a virtually infinite number of better ones. 4. When details become end results, you're actually messing with the cursed hows. 5. Make your menu lists—tall, dark, and handsome, whatever—just don't attach to them." (Dooley :104)

"Therefore, a "how" only becomes cursed not for what you do, but for how you view why you did it. Simply: If you are doing X to make your dreams come true, it's a cursed how. If you are doing X, among other things, to engage life's magic, create possibilities, and have fun, you're going to be a manifesting rock star." (Dooley :109)

"Notice, X is the same in both scenarios. The only difference is your rationale for doing it. In the latter instance, through diversification alone: 1. you've reduced stress 2. you've created more possibilities for success 3. you are possibly navigating around unknown limiting 2 beliefs, and 4. you've left room for "even better" than you knew to ask for. Add to these perks to "have fun in the pursuit" ... and the process becomes win-win-win." (Dooley :110)

"Two people could do the same thing, for instance. For one, it's a cursed how and they're carrying the weight of the world on their shoulders. And for the other, it's just a knock on the door, one of many, there's no attachment or insistence, "might work out, might not."" (Dooley :110)

"Three Stepsfor Ceating Drection When You HaveNON 1. Assess your sucky options. 2. Give yourself a deadline, maybe a couple of days. 3. Choose the least sucky of those options, and get busy. It was a sucky path that promised nothing. Yet it was better than doing nothing." (Dooley :111)

"Remember, this is advice to readers who have nothing going on in their life and no idea of where to begin. Begin anywhere, and this is how. If you do have something going on, but dream of living larger" (Dooley :111)

"while not knowing what to do next, then keep doing what you're doing, as you also begin knocking on new doors and trying new paths." (Dooley :112)

"Never did I wake up on a morning feeling like, I made it! I'm living my dreams! Yet still, only in hindsight, I had and I was. I mention this for two reasons: 1) Self-doubts and fear are normal in any journey, and they alone should not be allowed to stop you! Don't worry that you worry. As long as you continue doing all you can, with all you have, from where you are, you will become unstoppable. 2) I still had the rest of my life to figure out, as you probably do right now, which meant one thing, I and you, must keep on keeping on, no matter where we are." (Dooley :122)

"I often fall to wonder, as you will one day if not already, whatever did I do in my human, flailing, mortal, desperate, badmouthing life to deserve so much. To even ask that question, of course, reveals that some of my "old wiring" (limiting beliefs) are still evident in my thoughts, but now, so is the truth—we were all born deserving. Even our own fears and negativity can't stop us when we learn who we really are and all we're capable of doing." (Dooley :124)

"1. Taking action summons resources, emboldens beliefs, and avails you of life's magic. 2. For every step you take, the Universe takes 10,000. 3. Sometimes knocking on one door forces another to open. 4. What you do is not as important as that you do it. 5. By trying many paths, you automatically navigate around invisible limiting beliefs. 6. Never stop asking for help, trying new directions, responding to conditions, innovating, evolving—stay in motion. 7. The more you enjoy and can afford what you do, the more specific you can be." (Dooley :127)

"Great big, ear-to-ear, open-mouth smiles are responsible for far more sizzling romances, salary increases, life extensions, and calorie burning than your dentists, doctors, and financial planners will ever comprehend." (Dooley :132)

"Doesn't the person who always has something to do and somewhere to go catch your eye? Their motion creates an air of purpose, fulfillment, and happiness." (Dooley :135)

"Simply pay attention to your own words. If you hear something that doesn't serve you, stop saying it, because to say it or to even repeat it day in and day out, you start creating and/or perpetuating it. Your friend, for example, who says he can't lose weight is always right. The Universe silently replies, "Got it. Don't worry, you'll be in the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong friends, predisposed to the wrong foods, no willpower, slow metabolism! Roger! Gotcha!"" (Dooley :140)

"Approach creating change as play, not work; as fun, not mandatory." (Dooley :153)

"2. Thinking positive thoughts is never enough; you must act on those thoughts. 3. A tip on legend making: Do what you most want to do and do it your way. 4. Every single challenge of your life bears a gift, "lucky" you. 5. Playing make-believe is the fastest way to believing, and believing is the fastest way to receiving." (Dooley :154)

"1. This is it, right here, right now, as good as it's going to get. 2. Practice the art of selfish service. 3. Your life is awesome, in part, because of your present challenges. 4. The secret to living the life of your dreams is to indulge now to any degree you can. 5. Happiness does not mean you've settled for less; it signals you're ready for more." (Dooley :161)
