---
nav_order: 3.2
id: c82fe208-9f3f-4dba-8c09-ed00ee62c683
title: Installation & New Project
desc: ''
updated: 1599236608573
created: 1599236608573
data: {}
fname: clojure.installation
stub: false
parent: 6000b39f-04b1-4c49-b75b-dfa603889aa0
children: []
hpath: clojure.installation
---
# Clojure Installation and New Project

So, the first step of any program is to install something, sounds easy right, man how wrong I was.  I have dabbled a little bit in Python so had a little bit of an idea of what to expect but I was not prepared mentally for what was coming up.

From having to get singed up to Github and learn about what it is (optional) and learning about to downloading different JDK / J SE files,  to doing something with Leiningen and then something about some chocolate - I was all over the place and feeling a little overwhelmed with information overload. 

Anyway, what I did was throw my computer out of the window....no, seriously, I closed all of my Chrome tabs and started one step at a time. 

## Install

Here are the steps I carried out:

1. Download and install "Java SE Runtime Environment 8u251" from <https://oraclemirror.np.gy/jre8/>
2. Run PowerShell and type "java -version" to see that it has installed and you have the latest versions
3. Download IntelliJ from <https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/#section=windows>
4. Download the Clojure installation from <https://github.com/clojure/tools.deps.alpha/wiki/clj-on-Windows>
   - Once downloaded right click and select open with PowerShell, and let it run
   - There may be a few prompts to which I selected Y or A
5. Open terminal and type: "lein repl"

and Voila!, following the above I was able to get Clojure up and running. 

To celebrate, I typed "nil" and it returned `nil`. Great Success.

## New Project

To get a new project set up and running do the following:

1. In PowerShell run "Lein new app name" (XXXX represents the name)
2. cd name
3. lein run
   - Should show "hello world"

Open Intellij

1. Open Project - find Project.clj of project
2. Open as project
3. File -> New -> Clojure Namespace.
4. Type in a new and click Clojure
5. Add Configuration -> Leiningen
6. Clojure REPL - Add configuration -> Clojure REPL -> local
7. Press play
8. To evaluate the function - Alt+Shift+P

The Structure of a New Project is as follows:

1. Project.clj - this is a configuration file so that the program can answer which dependencies does the project have
2. src / folder / core.clj is the file where the source code will go for now.
3. Test directory is simply for tests
4. Resources is for assets like images  

### Intellij Tips

Discovered a few more tweaks / tips which I think are useful to know:

- Alt-Shift-P - will evaluate the top-level form your cursor is on in the REPL
- Alt-Shift-L - will load the file you are in, into the REPL
- Alt-Shift-M - will load all modified files into your REPL
- Alt-Shift-R - will change the REPL namespace to the one of the file you are in
- File -> Settings -> Keymap and search for `Send form before caret to REPL` and add the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+Enter for it. That way, when your cursor (caret) is at the end of any s-expr and evaluate the s-expr into the REPL by pressing: Ctrl+Enter.
